.. _license:

Third Party License Notices
===========================

This document contains third party intellectual property (IP) notices for the
Intel Corp® Packet Generation distribution. Certain licenses and license
notices may appear in other parts of the product distribution in accordance
with the license requirements. "Intel Corp", is a registered trademark of Intel
Corp. All other third-party trademarks are the property of their respective
owners.

Lua
---

Lua Version 5.3.0.

Lua is a lightweight, embeddable scripting language. Lua combines simple
procedural syntax with powerful data description constructs based on
associative arrays and extensible semantics. Lua is dynamically typed, runs by
interpreting bytecode for a register-based virtual machine, and has automatic
memory management with incremental garbage collection, making it ideal for
configuration, scripting, and rapid prototyping.


**Copyright(c) 1994-2015 Lua.org, PUC-Rio.**

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and tom permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


Warranty Disclaimer & Limitation of Liability
---------------------------------------------

**OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE**: "Open Source Software" is software that may be
delivered with the Software and is licensed in accordance with open source
licenses, including, but not limited to, any software licensed under Academic
Free License, Apache Software License, Artistic License, BSD License, GNU
General Public License, GNU Library General Public License, GNU Lesser Public
License, Mozilla Public License, Python License or any other similar license.

**DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES**: WIND RIVER AND ITS LICENSORS DISCLAIM ALL
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED AND STATUTORY INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE
AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO OPEN SOURCE
SOFTWARE. NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY WIND RIVER, ITS
DEALERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AGENTS OR EMPLOYEES SHALL IN ANY WAY INCREASE THE SCOPE
OF THIS WARRANTY. Some jurisdictions do not allow the limitation or exclusion
of implied warranties or how long an implied warranty may last, so the above
limitations may not apply to Customer. This warranty gives Customer specific
legal rights and Customer may have other rights that vary from jurisdiction to
jurisdiction.

**LIMITATION OF LIABILITY**: WIND RIVER AND ITS LICENSORS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE
FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR INDIRECT DAMAGES OF ANY KIND
(INCLUDING DAMAGES FOR INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS, LOSS OF PROFITS, OR THE LIKE) REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ACTION WHETHER
IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT PRODUCT LIABILITY OR ANY
OTHER LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO OPEN SOURCE
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF WIND RIVER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES. IN NO EVENT WILL WIND RIVER’S AGGREGATE CUMULATIVE LIABILITY FOR ANY
CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE EXCEED ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100). Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of
incidental or consequential damages so this limitation and exclusion may not
apply to Customer.

THE WARRANTY DISCLAIMER AND LIMITED LIABILITY ARE FUNDAMENTAL ELEMENTS OF THE
BASIS OF THE BARGAIN BETWEEN WIND RIVER AND CUSTOMER. WIND RIVER WOULD NOT BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE WITHOUT SUCH LIMITATIONS.
